<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Diego Elio PettenÃ²
SPDX-License-Identifier: 0BSD
-->
# blister-buster

An OpenSCAD script to bust open a (parameterized) blister of pills.

## What Is This?

This repository contains an [OpenSCAD](https://openscad.org/) script.

The script generates a three-parts contraption: a base onto which to
lay a blister of pills, a grid to align it, and a "buster plate" that,
once pressed onto the other two, pops open the whole blister of pills
at once.

The script contains parameters for the number of pills present in the
blister, and whether there is a "center" pill (descriptions are partly
documented in the script itself) so that it can be used with many
different types of blisters.

In addition to the printed components, you'll need two alignment pins.
I use 4x30mm steel pins, but there's parameters to change this in the
script itself.

## Why Is This?

[I have diabetes](https://flameeyes.blog/tag/diabetes/), and for that
I take Metformin. In the countries I lived in, Metformin is provided in
blisters, rather than bottles. While I'm sure there are motivations
behind it, these blisters are annoying to deal with.

Besides issues with their disposal (they are not usually recycled),  I
have more than once cut myself on particularly strong blister film,
which, having diabetes, takes a bit more time than average to heal.

So instead I generally break open a couple of boxes, bust the blisters,
and keep the pills in dark glass bottles on the table for easier
consumption (as well as in store-bought pill boxes when traveling.)

My first few designs were done in Fusion 360, but as the brand of pills
changes depending on who holds the contract with my pharmacy time by
time, it got annoying to tweak it for a new size of blisters. Thus, the
fully parameterized script.
